Update release.md to clarify the release steps (#4776)
grafana/mimir: RELEASE.md

- There may be some actions left to address when cutting this release.
  The release shepherd is responsible for going through TODOs in the repository and verifying that nothing is that is due this release is forgotten.
- On the planned release date, the release shepherd cuts the first pre-release (using the suffix `-rc.0`) and creates a new branch called `release-<major>.<minor>` starting at the commit tagged for the pre-release.

>   New branch `release-<major>-<minor>` should be branched out from latest weekly release `r<xxx>`, where xxx is the weekly release number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  New branch `release-<major>-<minor>` should be branched out from latest weekly release `r<xxx>`, where <xxx> is the weekly release number.
```

- On the planned release date, the release shepherd cuts the first pre-release (using the suffix `-rc.0`) and creates a new branch called `release-<major>.<minor>` starting at the commit tagged for the pre-release.
  New branch `release-<major>-<minor>` should be branched out from latest weekly release `r<xxx>`, where xxx is the weekly release number.
  In general, a pre-release is considered a release candidate (that's what `rc` stands for) and should therefore not contain any known bugs that are planned to be fixed in the final release.
- With the pre-release, the release shepherd is responsible for coordinating or running the release candidate in any end user production environment for at least 1 week. 

>   Since we are branching out pre-release from weekly release, the pre-release changes are automatically tested in production environment. 

Reviewer 2: This once again is specific to Grafana Labs procedure. I would keep the previous generic version.

The quick and easy way to create a GitHub issue using the following template and follow the instructions from the issue itself.
If something is not clear, you can get back to this document to learn more about the process.

> > **Note:** When making a branch while working on the following checklist, don't create branch with `release-` prefix, because such branch is protected and can't get additional commits pushed upon branch creation.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure I understand this note, the checklist has a step to create release-<version>. Do you want to say:
```suggestion
> **Note:** Branches with `release-` prefix in the name are protected, use some different branch name for making your PRs, for example `my/release-notes`.
```

Author: The rephrasing suggestion is better. Thank you.

````markdown
### Publish the release candidate

- [ ] Begin drafting the [release notes](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/RELEASE.md#write-release-notes-document)

>   - Create the release note PR targeting the main branch
>   - This step shouldn't block from publishing release candidate
>   - After the release note PR is merged (which usually happen after RC is published), cherry-pick them into the release branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Create the release notes PR targeting the main branch
  - This step shouldn't block from publishing release candidate
  - After the release notes PR is merged (which usually happen after RC is published), cherry-pick them into the release branch
```

I think we refer to the whole document as release notes. 

Also maybe an example PR may be useful 

```suggestion
  - Create the release notes PR targeting the main branch; [example PR](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/4740)
  - This step shouldn't block from publishing release candidate
  - After the release notes PR is merged (which usually happen after RC is published), cherry-pick them into the release branch
```

The quick and easy way to create a GitHub issue using the following template and follow the instructions from the issue itself.
If something is not clear, you can get back to this document to learn more about the process.

> **Note:** When making a branch while working on the following checklist, don't create branch with `release-` prefix, because such branch is protected and can't get additional commits pushed upon branch creation.

````markdown
### Publish the release candidate

- [ ] Begin drafting the [release notes](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/RELEASE.md#write-release-notes-document)
  - Create the release note PR targeting the main branch
  - This step shouldn't block from publishing release candidate
  - After the release note PR is merged (which usually happen after RC is published), cherry-pick them into the release branch
- [ ] Wait for any open PR we want to get merged before cutting the release candidate

>   - We shouldn't wait the open PRs beyond the scheduled release date

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - We shouldn't wait for the open PRs beyond the scheduled release date
```

  - [ ] Eventually open a PR for every experimental feature we want to promote to stable
  - [ ] Eventually open a PR to remove any deprecated feature or configuration option that should be removed in this release
- [ ] Update `CHANGELOG.md`
  - [ ] Run `./tools/release/check-changelog.sh LAST-RELEASE-TAG...main` and add missing PRs to CHANGELOG
  - [ ] Ensure CHANGELOG entries are [sorted by type](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/docs/internal/contributing/README.md#changelog)
  - [ ] Add a new section for the new release so that `## main / unreleased` is blank and at the top. The new section should say `## x.y.0-rc.0`.
- [ ] Run `./tools/release/notify-changelog-cut.sh`
- [ ] Generate mixin screenshots
  - Update config in `operations/mimir-mixin-tools/screenshots/.config` and `operations/mimir-mixin-tools/serve/.config`
  - Use dev `MIMIR_NAMESPACE` that has more metrics such as `cortex-dev-01` so that the generated dashboard will not be too empty

>   - Use api-keys generated from [grafana dev environment](https://grafana-dev.com/orgs/raintank/api-keys) to set the `DATASOURCE_PASSWORD`

Reviewer 2: This refers to Grafana Labs specific environment, which is not useful in a public document.

    ```bash
    ./tools/release/create-pr-to-merge-release-branch-to-main.sh
    ```
  - [ ] Publish the Github pre-release draft after getting review from at least one maintainer

>   - [ ] Announce the release candidate on social media such as on Mimir community slack, your own Twitter, Mastodon or Linkedin account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Announce the release candidate on social media such as on Mimir community slack using your own Twitter, Mastodon or LinkedIn account
```

branch with the merge commit of the PR you labelled. See [PR#2290 (original PR)](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2290) and
[PR#2364 (backport PR)](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2364) for an example pair.

> In the case of backport is failed. Follow step from grafanabot's comment to do a manual cherry-pick.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case the automated backport fails, follow the steps from grafanabot's comment to do a manual cherry-pick.
```

Author: Not grammar expert. Wouldn't this be more correct?
```suggestion
In case the automated backport failed, follow the steps from grafanabot's comment to do a manual cherry-pick.```

Reviewer 3: sounds ok, just lose the extra back ticks
